# Why I Love VSCode?
[pt-br](../pt-br/0001.md)

Known as Visual Studio Code, VSCode is a highly extensible and customizable text editor with a bunch of "IDE like" features. Created in 2015 by Microsoft, it is build on Electron, a framework that brings NodeJS web applications to the desktop.
VSCode support many languages, some o them are C++, C#, CSS, Dockerfile, Go, HTML, Java, JavaScript, JSON, Less, Markdown, PHP, PowerShell, Python, SCSS, T-SQL, TypeScript, and many more thanks to extensions developed by company and community. It's free and open-source (by MIT Licence).

## So Why?

There are many advantages to adopt VSCode over most famous IDEs on the market. Here some of my favorites.

### Multi-platform

It works well in Windows, Mac and Linux.

### Open-source

As I said it is open-source, but (believe it or not), it can be even more. Thats because VSCode is open-source but the product itself is licensed under not-FLOSS license and contains telemetry/tracking. If you want an even more open-source alternative, you can download VSCodium, that is a community-driven, freely-licensed binary distribution of the original Microsoft's VSCode.

### Polyglot

VSCode is "Language Agnostic" so it means there's no features dedicated to a single language by default, you can open N windows and work with N different languages at the sam time. That brings another advantage that is the fact that you can work in different projects using the same editor. Same snippets, themes, shortcuts and any other customizations will work in the same way even in different environments.

### Workspaces

VSCode has a workspace management, where you can include folders, customize and save settings related to a specific workspace without interfere in the other ones, for example, there's a theme called Atom Dark Pro that I love to use on Java/Kotlin projects, but for NodeJS ones, I prefer to use the Darcula one and Python projects I prefer to use the Night Owl theme, so I can specify on each workspace my preferred theme, then every time I open the workspace the theme (and many other settings) will be automatically set, without interfering with other windows.

### Lightweight

VSCode can be as powerful and simple as you wish, as I said it is not a IDE, it is a Text Editor (a very extensible and customizable one), that means that what make it powerful are the extensions that you use. A cool trick is to enable extensions according to the workspace, you can disable all extensions of VSCode and ask to enable Java related extensions only when you open Java project workspaces.

### Integrated Terminal and Debugger

The integrated terminal on VSCode is nothing more than simple and functional. It is integrated with Debugger that requires a little bit of manual configuration to get work with languages like Java and Clojure, but if you can do the trick, it works like a charm.

### Other usages

I personally love take notes in markdown, so from a long long time, VSCode is my note app, thanks to the SpellCheck extension my notes and posts been awesome. Thanks to the Git Graph extension I can manage my git repositories and with a great visual support avoid getting troubles with merges and rebase. With the Docker Extension I can manage my containers and even access them from the terminal. I can even write, run and debug applications directly inside of containers. With Azure Cosmos DB extension, I can easily visualize and edit data on MongoDB Databases, or just use SQL Tools to deal with MySQL, Oracle or Cassandra Databases. I can even manage my Jenkins and Kubernetes infrastructure, directly from a simple and lightweight text editor.

> Special thanks for reviewing to:
> [Vinicius Mussato](https://github.com/vmussato)